README.md, before:

insights-client
========

Installs, configures, and registers a system to the [Red Hat Insights service](http://access.redhat.com/insights).  This role is intended to work on Red Hat Enterprise Linux, though it will generally work on any yum based system that has access to the insights-client RPM or the redhat-access-insights RPM.

Requirements
------------

**Note on managing RHEL 8 systems:**

RHEL 8 changed the default path for the python interpreter so this role will need to know the new path. 
Ansible version 2.8+ can determine the correct path automatically, but if you are using Ansible version 2.7 
or lower the path will need to be supplied to the role. This can be done by configuring the `ansible_python_interpreter` 
parameter via the configuration file (shown in the examples further down), playbook invocation, inventory, etc.

RHEL 8 platform-python path: **/usr/libexec/platform-python**

This is only required when managing RHEL 8 systems with Ansible version 2.7 or lower. 

**Note on managing RHEL 6 SELinux systems:**

Almost all uses of Ansible that target SELinux machines require that the python module 'selinux' is installed. On RHEL that module is provided by the rpm 'python-selinux'. This rpm will need to be installed prior to using this role on RHEL 6 (it is already included in RHEL 7). 

Role Variables / Configuration
--------------

The following variables can be used to perform some initial configuration for the insights-client install. 
These variables can be passed in directly with the playbook invocation or placed in a configuration yaml file.
See the section 'Example Playbook' for information on various ways to use these variables. 

* insights_display_name: (optional)

    Sets or resets the Display Name/System Name within Insights.  Insights needs an easily identifiable
    name for each system.  If no explicit display name is given to a system, Insights uses it's hostname.
    If a system's hostname is not easily identifiable, like "localhost" or "d4098731408", you can give
    it a better name by setting 'insights_display_name'

    If undefined (not set at all), this role will not make changes to a system's display name.

    If defined (set) to be the empty string, this role will remove any previously set display name
    for the system, and cause it to use the systems hostname as it's Display name/System name.

    If defined to be a non-empty string, this role will replace any previously set display name
    for the system with the given string.

* redhat_portal_username: (optional)
* redhat_portal_password: (optional)
    
    If defined, these set, change, or remove the username and password in the Insights configuration.
    If undefined, this role will make no changes to the Insights configuration.

    If defined to a non-empty string this role will set or change the username and password.
    If defined to an empty string this role will remove the username and password.

    These should be valid username/password for Insights/Red Hat Portal/Red Hat Subscription Manager.

    If the username and password are set in the Insights configuration, they will be used as
    credentials for all future interactions with the Insights server.

    These credentials are only necessary if the client system is not registered with Red Hat
    Subscription Manager.  If the username and password are not set in the Insights configuration,
    which is the default initial state, all interactions with the Insights server will use the
    CERT provided by RHSM.

* auto_config: (optional)
    
    True/False - attempt to auto-configure the network connection with Satellite or RHSM. Default behavior is True.

* authmethod: (optional)
    
    BASIC/CERT - This parameter is used to set the authentication method for the Portal. Default bahavior is BASIC.
    Note: when 'auto_config' is enabled (set to True), CERT will be used if RHSM or Satellite is detected.

* insights_proxy: (optional)

    If the insights client is behind a proxy or firewall, a proxy can be specified. Default is unspecified.
		Ex: http://user:pass@192.168.100.50:8080 

* ansible_python_interpreter: (see Requirements above to determine if this is needed)

    This variable allows you to provide the python interpreter path for ansible to use. This is needed when 
    managing RHEL 8 with older versions of Ansible (2.7 and lower).

    RHEL 8 platform-python path: **/usr/libexec/platform-python**

Facts Installed
---------------

This role installs a new fact 'insights' that provides the system's Insights' System Id.  This System
Id can be used to query about the system with the Insights Service API.

Once this role is run against a system, any future playbook run against that same system will have
the system's Insights System Id in the fact 'ansible_local.insights.system_id'.

For example the task:

    - debug: var=ansible_local.insights.system_id

will display the System Id.

Dependencies
------------

N/A

Example Playbook
----------------

In the examples directory is a very basic playbook utilizing this role:

    - hosts: all
      roles:
      - { role: RedHatInsights.insights-client, when: ansible_os_family == 'RedHat' }

Here is an example with additional configuration (though using a separate file is preferred if including 
usernames or passwords):

    - hosts: all
      roles:
      - role: RedHatInsights.insights-client
          vars:
            insights_display_name: 'example_system'
            ansible_python_interpreter: '/usr/libexec/platform-python'
        when: ansible_os_family == 'RedHat'

Example Configuration File
----------------

The insights-client install can be configured by using a configuration yaml file to modify various parameters. 
Here's an example, insights-client-config.yml, that configures the insights-client to register via basic auth 
using the provided username/password and display_name:

```yaml
redhat_portal_username: example_user
redhat_portal_password: example_password
insights_display_name: example_system
autoconfig: False
authmethod: BASIC
```

**Reminder:** Check Requirements above to determine if `ansible_python_interpreter` should be configured prior to running.

If you need to run the Insights Client on a system that is not registered to Red Hat Subscription
Manager, as often happens in testing and demoing, set the redhat_portal_username/redhat_portal_password.

Note: Any of the role variables mentioned earlier can be placed in this configuration file

Change the permissions on the file so that only you can read them (in case usernames/passwords are listed), and then any time you invoke
this role, add the ansible-playbook --extra-vars option:

    $ ansible-playbook ... --extra-vars @insights-client-config.yml ...

Note: One of the really useful features of Ansible Tower is role based management of credentials.

Example Use
-----------

1. On a system where [Ansible is installed](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/intro_installation.html), run the following command:

    ```bash
    $ ansible-galaxy install RedHatInsights.insights-client
    ```

    This will install the latest version of the role to ansible's default role directory (if using a non default role directory 
    update the playbook accordingly)

1. Copy the Example Playbook to a file named 'install-insights.yml'.

1. Run the following command, replacing 'myhost.example.com' with the name of the
   system where you want to install, configure, and register the insights client.

    ```bash
    $ ansible-playbook --limit=myhost.example.com install-insights.yml --extra-vars @insights-client-config.yml
    ```

    Note: The ansible-playbook invocation will depend on ansible configuration

License and Author
------------------

License: Apache License 2.0
Author: Red Hat, Inc.

Commit message:

let's run agent once installed and registered

README.md, after:

insights-client
========

Installs, configures, and registers a system to the [Red Hat Insights service](http://access.redhat.com/insights).  This role is intended to work on Red Hat Enterprise Linux, though it will generally work on any yum based system that has access to the insights-client RPM or the redhat-access-insights RPM.

Requirements
------------

**Note on managing RHEL 8 systems:**

RHEL 8 changed the default path for the python interpreter so this role will need to know the new path.
Ansible version 2.8+ can determine the correct path automatically, but if you are using Ansible version 2.7
or lower the path will need to be supplied to the role. This can be done by configuring the `ansible_python_interpreter`
parameter via the configuration file (shown in the examples further down), playbook invocation, inventory, etc.

RHEL 8 platform-python path: **/usr/libexec/platform-python**

This is only required when managing RHEL 8 systems with Ansible version 2.7 or lower.

**Note on managing RHEL 6 SELinux systems:**

Almost all uses of Ansible that target SELinux machines require that the python module 'selinux' is installed. On RHEL that module is provided by the rpm 'python-selinux'. This rpm will need to be installed prior to using this role on RHEL 6 (it is already included in RHEL 7).

Role Variables / Configuration
--------------

The following variables can be used to perform some initial configuration for the insights-client install.
These variables can be passed in directly with the playbook invocation or placed in a configuration yaml file.
See the section 'Example Playbook' for information on various ways to use these variables.

* insights_display_name: (optional)

    Sets or resets the Display Name/System Name within Insights.  Insights needs an easily identifiable
    name for each system.  If no explicit display name is given to a system, Insights uses it's hostname.
    If a system's hostname is not easily identifiable, like "localhost" or "d4098731408", you can give
    it a better name by setting 'insights_display_name'

    If undefined (not set at all), this role will not make changes to a system's display name.

    If defined (set) to be the empty string, this role will remove any previously set display name
    for the system, and cause it to use the systems hostname as it's Display name/System name.

    If defined to be a non-empty string, this role will replace any previously set display name
    for the system with the given string.

* redhat_portal_username: (optional)
* redhat_portal_password: (optional)

    If defined, these set, change, or remove the username and password in the Insights configuration.
    If undefined, this role will make no changes to the Insights configuration.

    If defined to a non-empty string this role will set or change the username and password.
    If defined to an empty string this role will remove the username and password.

    These should be valid username/password for Insights/Red Hat Portal/Red Hat Subscription Manager.

    If the username and password are set in the Insights configuration, they will be used as
    credentials for all future interactions with the Insights server.

    These credentials are only necessary if the client system is not registered with Red Hat
    Subscription Manager.  If the username and password are not set in the Insights configuration,
    which is the default initial state, all interactions with the Insights server will use the
    CERT provided by RHSM.

* auto_config: (optional)

    True/False - attempt to auto-configure the network connection with Satellite or RHSM. Default behavior is True.

* authmethod: (optional)

    BASIC/CERT - This parameter is used to set the authentication method for the Portal. Default bahavior is BASIC.
    Note: when 'auto_config' is enabled (set to True), CERT will be used if RHSM or Satellite is detected.

* insights_proxy: (optional)

    If the insights client is behind a proxy or firewall, a proxy can be specified. Default is unspecified.
		Ex: http://user:pass@192.168.100.50:8080

* ansible_python_interpreter: (see Requirements above to determine if this is needed)

    This variable allows you to provide the python interpreter path for ansible to use. This is needed when
    managing RHEL 8 with older versions of Ansible (2.7 and lower).

    RHEL 8 platform-python path: **/usr/libexec/platform-python**

* insights_run_agent: (optional)

    If defined and equals True, it'll run the insights agent as a last step to upload an initial insights report.
    Otherwise (not defined or equals False), nothing will be executed.

Facts Installed
---------------

This role installs a new fact 'insights' that provides the system's Insights' System Id.  This System
Id can be used to query about the system with the Insights Service API.

Once this role is run against a system, any future playbook run against that same system will have
the system's Insights System Id in the fact 'ansible_local.insights.system_id'.

For example the task:

    - debug: var=ansible_local.insights.system_id

will display the System Id.

Dependencies
------------

N/A

Example Playbook
----------------

In the examples directory is a very basic playbook utilizing this role:

    - hosts: all
      roles:
      - { role: RedHatInsights.insights-client, when: ansible_os_family == 'RedHat' }

Here is an example with additional configuration (though using a separate file is preferred if including
usernames or passwords):

    - hosts: all
      roles:
      - role: RedHatInsights.insights-client
          vars:
            insights_display_name: 'example_system'
            ansible_python_interpreter: '/usr/libexec/platform-python'
            insights_run_agent: True
        when: ansible_os_family == 'RedHat'

Example Configuration File
----------------

The insights-client install can be configured by using a configuration yaml file to modify various parameters.
Here's an example, insights-client-config.yml, that configures the insights-client to register via basic auth
using the provided username/password and display_name:

```yaml
redhat_portal_username: example_user
redhat_portal_password: example_password
insights_display_name: example_system
insights_run_agent: True
autoconfig: False
authmethod: BASIC
```

**Reminder:** Check Requirements above to determine if `ansible_python_interpreter` should be configured prior to running.

If you need to run the Insights Client on a system that is not registered to Red Hat Subscription
Manager, as often happens in testing and demoing, set the redhat_portal_username/redhat_portal_password.

Note: Any of the role variables mentioned earlier can be placed in this configuration file

Change the permissions on the file so that only you can read them (in case usernames/passwords are listed), and then any time you invoke
this role, add the ansible-playbook --extra-vars option:

    $ ansible-playbook ... --extra-vars @insights-client-config.yml ...

Note: One of the really useful features of Ansible Tower is role based management of credentials.

Example Use
-----------

1. On a system where [Ansible is installed](http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/intro_installation.html), run the following command:

    ```bash
    $ ansible-galaxy install RedHatInsights.insights-client
    ```

    This will install the latest version of the role to ansible's default role directory (if using a non default role directory
    update the playbook accordingly)

1. Copy the Example Playbook to a file named 'install-insights.yml'.

1. Run the following command, replacing 'myhost.example.com' with the name of the
   system where you want to install, configure, and register the insights client.

    ```bash
    $ ansible-playbook --limit=myhost.example.com install-insights.yml --extra-vars @insights-client-config.yml
    ```

    Note: The ansible-playbook invocation will depend on ansible configuration

License and Author
------------------

License: Apache License 2.0
Author: Red Hat, Inc.
